From June 2014 through January 2015, Joe was witnesses held international conventions
around the world.
One of these events took place at the National Sports Stadium in Harari, Zimbabwe from
August 22nd through the 24th, 2014.
Joining us in studio at the Watch Your Educational Center in New York is John Jubber, a representative
of the branch office of Joe was witnesses in Zimbabwe.
He is currently here receiving additional training in organizing the Bible Educational
Work of the Witnesses in Zimbabwe.
Thank you so much for joining us and being with us today.
It's a pleasure to be here.
Tell us about the International Convention.
Where were the delegates from?
We had 3,500 delegates that were from Brazil, Germany, United States, Zambia and Kenya.
How would you describe the impact of the International Convention there in Zimbabwe?
Well I think it would be fair to say that this international convention really put
Jehovah's Witnesses on the map in Zimbabwe.
Many people of course knew about us before, but now with all these delegates coming and
then a huge crowd coming for the actual convention that was held at the National Sports Stadium,
people became very much aware of the activities and of the work of Jehovah's Witnesses.
What was the attendance of the International Convention?
Well it started out on the first day with over 60,000 which was a big surprise to us because
the stadium can only take 60,000 people and we only have 43,000 witnesses in the country.
So we thought we may have perhaps more than 50,000 on the peak day which would be Sunday,
but we started with over 60,000 and ended up with 82,409 on the Sunday which was the peak
attendance.
That is a phenomenal response.
What do you think were contributing factors to that response from the public to the convention?
There were a few factors, but one of them was the fact that the delegates from other countries
came and shared actively and talking about the convention that was coming up.
So they were mostly in the country for a few days ahead of time.
They spoke about it enthusiastically.
That was one factor.
Another was the fact that the witnesses ahead of time arranged a campaign to advertise
the convention, to invite people to come.
And another factor was the publicity that was given it in the media.
So all of these factors together made sure that many people knew about the convention and
many interested people came.
Really interesting.
Contributed to the interest that the news media and the public had in the convention activities.
Well, maybe one thing is that it was good news.
You know, we don't get a lot of good news these days, but this was something which was
just very positive.
It was an influx of people for a good purpose and it really helped people to see that Jehovah's
Witnesses are there to promote their Bible education work, but at the same time to promote
the interests of the community and to really try to help people to benefit from what the
Bible teaches.
And so as a result of that, it was all very, very positive.
That's excellent.
Has the branch office since the Bible hosted an international convention before?
Not an international convention.
Of course, we've had our annual regional conventions which have been held for many, many years, but
never anything of this magnitude or scope.
So as you look back and you've been in Zimbabwe for some time now, how would you rank this
event in terms of its impact on the local communities in Harari as well as the entire
country of Zimbabwe?
There's no doubt that this was historic.
This was something which everybody will remember.
It was something that witnesses will remember and even non-witnesses because Harari was
impacted in a way like never before.
So certainly, it has been an event that has been very historic and we know that many people
benefited very much from it and going forward.
The results are going to also just be positive for all concerned.
That is excellent.
One of the government officials that you mentioned Walter and Zimbabwe, who is the Minister
of Tourism and Hospitality Industry for the Republic of Zimbabwe.
He came to New York a couple of weeks after the International Convention in Zimbabwe and
part of his business trip, he made a special visit to the World Headquarters of Zimbabwe
Witnesses.
In his words, specifically to thank Zimbabwe Witnesses for choosing Harari as one of the locations
for the International Convention programs.
What else are you hearing from other officials in the country about the impact of the International
Convention?
All around, it seems the impact was very positive.
The officials were very helpful for us and of course the question on their minds is, when
will the next one be?
So although we may not have an international convention like that lined up in the near future,
they are all very keen to be of assistance to us.
So a fun spirit of cooperation and a willingness to work along with us was very evident from
early days and continues up to today.
So we are confident that in the future we will continue to enjoy this good relationship
with authorities both government and in the private sector.
Very good.
Looking at the future and looking ahead, how do you hope to sustain the public's interests
and the witness's activity and the bi-education work in Zimbabwe, particularly in view of
the tremendous response to the International Convention in Harari?
Well there has been an outstanding response.
Many, many people have sent in their names to the local branch office, asking for certain
items of literature, asking to be visited, asking to have Bible studies conducted
with them.
And we are sure that this is going to be sustained, that as these people get more help, so they
will see how the Bible really can benefit them now and can give them a wonderful hope
for the future, which is something that people really look forward to and need in this day
and age.
Excellent.
John Jover, representative of the branch office of Joe's Witnesses in Zimbabwe, thank
you very much for taking time out of your schedule to talk with us and share these
comments and insights, we wish you continued success in all the work that you are doing
there in Zimbabwe.
Thank you very much.